[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                 Manual Reference Pages  - all (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    ALL(3f) - [INTRINSIC:TRANSFORMATIONAL FUNCTION] determines if all the values are true

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class

SYNTAX

    result = ALL(MASK [, DIM])

DESCRIPTION

    Logical conjunction of elements of MASK along dimension DIM.

    "ALL(MASK [, DIM])" determines if all the values are true in MASK in the array along dimension DIM.

ARGUMENTS

             MASK - shall be a logical array. That is, the type of the argument shall be LOGICAL and it shall not be scalar.

             DIM - (optional) DIM shall be a scalar integer with a value that lies between one and the rank of MASK. The
             corresponding actual argument shall not be an optional dummy argument.

RETURN VALUE

    "ALL(MASK)" returns a scalar value of type LOGICAL where the kind type parameter is the same as the kind type parameter of
    MASK. If DIM is present, then ALL(MASK, DIM) returns an array with the rank of MASK minus 1. The shape is determined from the
    shape of MASK where the DIM dimension is elided.

        1.    ALL(MASK) is true if all elements of MASK are true. It also is true if MASK has zero size; otherwise, it is false.

        2.    If the rank of MASK is one, then ALL(MASK, DIM) is equivalent to ALL(MASK). If the rank is greater than one, then ALL
              (MASK, DIM) is determined by applying ALL to the array sections.

        4.    Result Characteristics. The result is of type logical with the same kind type parameter as MASK. It is scalar if DIM
              is absent or n = 1; otherwise, the result has rank n - 1 and shape [d1 , d2 , . . . , dDIM-1 , dDIM+1 , . . . , dn ]
              where [d1 , d2 , . . . , dn ] is the shape of MASK.

        5.    Result Value.

               Case (i):     The result of ALL (MASK) has the value true if all
                             elements of MASK are true or if MASK has
                             size zero, and the result has value false if any element
                             of MASK is false.


               Case (ii):    If MASK has rank one, ALL(MASK,DIM) is equal to
                             ALL(MASK). Otherwise, the value of element
                             (s1 , s2 , . . . , sDIM-1 , sDIM+1 , . . . , sn ) of ALL
                             (MASK, DIM) is equal to ALL (MASK (s1 , s2 , . . . ,
                             sDIM-1 , :, sDIM+1 , . . . , sn )).



EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

        program test_all
          logical l
          l = all((/.true., .true., .true./))
          print *, l
          call section
        contains
           subroutine section
              integer a(2,3), b(2,3)
              a = 1
              b = 1
              b(2,2) = 2
              print *, all(a .eq. b, 1)
              print *, all(a .eq. b, 2)
           end subroutine section
        end program test_all



    Case (i):

         The value of ALL ([.TRUE., .FALSE., .TRUE.]) is false.



    Case (ii): 1|3|5

           If B is the array -+-+- 2|4|6

           0|3|5

           and C is the array -+-+- 7|4|8

        then ALL (B /= C, DIM = 1) is [true, false, false] and ALL (B /= C, DIM = 2) is [false, false].

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Transformational function.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                              all (3)                                                 July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 4cdfaf8a-120e-4b9d-8c95-b577b7c2aeff using man macros.
                                                               [all]
