[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          Manual Reference Pages  - atomic_fetch_and (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    atomic_fetch_and(3f) - [INTRINSIC:ATOMIC:BIT MANIPULATION] Atomic bitwise AND operation with prior fetch

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Example
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    call atomic_fetch_and(atom, value, old [, stat])

DESCRIPTION

    atomic_fetch_and(atom, value, old) atomically stores the value of ATOM in OLD and defines ATOM with the bitwise AND between the
    values of ATOM and VALUE. When STAT is present and the invocation was successful, it is assigned the value 0. If it is present
    and the invocation has failed, it is assigned a positive value; in particular, for a coindexed ATOM, if the remote image has
    stopped, it is assigned the value of iso_fortran_env s stat_stopped_image and if the remote image has failed, the value
    stat_failed_image.

ARGUMENTS

            ATOM - Scalar coarray or coindexed variable of integer type with atomic_int_kind kind.

            VALUE - Scalar of the same type as ATOM. If the kind is different, the value is converted to the kind of ATOM.

            OLD - Scalar of the same type and kind as ATOM.

            STAT - (optional) Scalar default-kind integer variable.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program atomic
         use iso_fortran_env
         integer(atomic_int_kind) :: atom[*], old
         call atomic_fetch_and (atom[1], int(b 10100011101 ), old)
       end program atomic



STANDARD

    [[TS 18508]] or later

CLASS

    Atomic subroutine

SEE ALSO

    [[atomic_define]], [[atomic_and]], [[iso_fortran_env]], [[atomic_fetch_add]], [[atomic_fetch_or]], [[atomic_fetch_xor]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                       atomic_fetch_and (3)                                           July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from b2642683-355e-4a62-af31-c84e02cfeae6 using man macros.
                                                           [atomic_fet]
