[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              Manual Reference Pages  - co_reduce (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    co_reduce(3f) - [INTRINSIC] Reduction of values on the current set of images

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Example
    Note
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    call co_reduce(a, operator, [, result_image, stat, errmsg])

DESCRIPTION

    co_reduce determines element-wise the reduction of the value of A on all images of the current team. The pure function passed
    as OPERATOR is used to pairwise reduce the values of A by passing either the value of A of different images or the result
    values of such a reduction as argument. If A is an array, the deduction is done element wise. If result_image is present, the
    result values are returned in A on the specified image only and the value of A on the other images become undefined. If
    result_image is not present, the value is returned on all images. If the execution was successful and STAT is present, it is
    assigned the value zero. If the execution failed, STAT gets assigned a nonzero value and, if present, ERRMSG gets assigned a
    value describing the occurred error.

ARGUMENTS

             A - is an intent(inout) argument and shall be nonpolymorphic. If it is allocatable, it shall be allocated; if it is a
             pointer, it shall be associated. A shall have the same type and type parameters on all images of the team; if it is an
             array, it shall have the same shape on all images.

             OPERATOR - pure function with two scalar nonallocatable arguments, which shall be nonpolymorphic and have the same
             type and type parameters as A. The function shall return a nonallocatable scalar of the same type and type parameters
             as A. The function shall be the same on all images and with regards to the arguments mathematically commutative and
             associative. Note that OPERATOR may not be an elemental function, unless it is an intrinsic function.

             result_image - (optional) a scalar integer expression; if present, it shall have the same the same value on all images
             and refer to an image of the current team.

             STAT - (optional) a scalar integer variable

             ERRMSG - (optional) a scalar character variable

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program test
         integer :: val
         val = this_image()
         call co_reduce(val, result_image=1, operator=myprod)
         if (this_image() == 1) then
           write(*,*) "Product value", val  ! prints num_images() factorial
         end if
       contains
         pure function myprod(a, b)
           integer, value :: a, b
           integer :: myprod
           myprod = a * b
         end function myprod
       end program test



NOTE

    While the rules permit in principle an intrinsic function, none of the intrinsics in the standard fulfill the criteria of
    having a specific function, which takes two arguments of the same type and returning that type as result.

STANDARD

    [[TS 18508]] or later

CLASS

    [[Collective subroutine]]

SEE ALSO

    [[co_min]], [[co_max]], [[co_sum]], [[co_broadcast]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                           co_reduce (3)                                              July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 5cdb7fea-1fab-448c-af06-f0131c4753f4 using man macros.
                                                            [co_reduce]
