[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Manual Reference Pages  - date_and_time (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    date_and_time(3f) - [INTRINSIC:SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT] gets current time

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    call date_and_time([date, time, zone, values])

DESCRIPTION

    date_and_time(date, time, zone, values) gets the corresponding date and time information from the real-time system clock. DATE
    is intent(out) and has form ccyymmdd. TIME is intent(out) and has form hhmmss.sss. ZONE is intent(out) and has form (+-)hhmm,
    representing the difference with respect to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). Unavailable time and date parameters return
    blanks.

    VALUES is intent(out) and provides the following:

o  value(1): - The year

   o value(2): - The month

   o value(3): - The day of the month

   o value(4): - Time difference with UTC in minutes

   o value(5): - The hour of the day

   o value(6): - The minutes of the hour

   o value(7): - The seconds of the minute

   o value(8): - The milliseconds of the second

ARGUMENTS

       DATE - (Optional) The type shall be character(len=8) or larger, and of default kind.

       TIME - (Optional) The type shall be character(len=10) or larger, and of default kind.

       ZONE - (Optional) The type shall be character(len=5) or larger, and of default kind.

       VALUES - (Optional) The type shall be integer(8).

RETURN VALUE

    None

EXAMPLE

    program test_time_and_date

            character(8)  :: date
            character(10) :: time
            character(5)  :: zone
            integer,dimension(8) :: values
            ! using keyword arguments
            call date_and_time(date,time,zone,values)
            call date_and_time(DATE=date,ZONE=zone)
            call date_and_time(TIME=time)
            call date_and_time(VALUES=values)
            print  (a,2x,a,2x,a) , date, time, zone
            print  (8i5) , values



    end program test_time_and_date

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Subroutine

SEE ALSO

    [[cpu_time]], [[system_clock]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                         date_and_time (3)                                            July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from b518eab7-4a53-4baa-96a4-a7694c00d24a using man macros.
                                                           [date_and_t]
