-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - EXIT (7)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    EXIT(7f) - [FORTRAN:EXECUTION CONTROL] statement

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Examples

SYNOPSIS

    EXIT [construct-name]

DESCRIPTION

      The EXIT statement provides one way of terminating a loop, or completing
      execution of another construct.


      If a construct-name appears, the EXIT statement shall be within that
      construct; otherwise, it shall be within the range of at least one
      do-construct.


      An EXIT statement belongs to a particular construct. If a construct
      name appears, the EXIT statement belongs
      to that construct; otherwise, it belongs to the innermost DO construct
      in which it appears.


      An exit-stmt shall not belong to a DO CONCURRENT construct,
      nor shall it appear within the range
      of a DO CONCURRENT construct if it belongs to a construct
      that contains that DO CONCURRENT construct.


      When an EXIT statement that belongs to a DO construct is executed,
      it terminates the loop and
      any active loops contained within the terminated loop. When an
      EXIT statement that belongs to a non-DO construct is executed, it
      terminates any active loops contained within that construct, and
      completes execution of that construct.

EXAMPLES

      Samples:


       do i=1,10
          if(i.eq.4)exit ! exit loop
       enddo


       do i=1,10
          do j=100,200
             if(j.eq.150)exit ! exit inner loop "j"
          enddo
       enddo


       OUTER: do i=1,10
          INNER: do j=100,200
             if(j.eq.150)exit OUTER ! exit named loop
          enddo INNER
       enddo OUTER


       MYBLOCK: block
          big=.false.
          do i=1,100
            if(i=40)then
              exit MYBLOCK
            endif
          enddo
          big=.true.
       endblock MYBLOCK

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fortran                                                      EXIT (7)                                                  January 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from exit.7.txt using man macros.
