[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             Manual Reference Pages  - get_command (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    get_command(3f) - [INTRINSIC:SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT] Get the entire command line

CONTENTS

    Description
    Syntax
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

DESCRIPTION

    Retrieve the entire command line that was used to invoke the program.

SYNTAX

    call get_command([command, length, status])

ARGUMENTS

          COMMAND - (Optional) shall be of type CHARACTER and of default kind.

          LENGTH - (Optional) Shall be of type INTEGER and of default kind.

          STATUS - (Optional) Shall be of type INTEGER and of default kind.

RETURN VALUE

    If COMMAND is present, stores the entire command line that was used to invoke the program in COMMAND. If LENGTH is present, it
    is assigned the length of the command line. If STATUS is present, it is assigned 0 upon success of the command, -1 if COMMAND
    is too short to store the command line, or a positive value in case of an error.

    Note that what is typed on the command line is often processed by a shell. The shell often processes special characters and
    white space before passing it to the program. The processing can typically be turned off by turning off globbing or quoting the
    command line arguments with quote characters and/or changing the default field separators, but this should rarely be necessary.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program test_get_command
       implicit none
       integer                      :: COMMAND_LINE_LENGTH
       character(len=:),allocatable :: COMMAND_LINE


          ! get command line length
          call get_command(length=COMMAND_LINE_LENGTH)


          ! allocate string big enough to hold command line
          allocate(character(len=COMMAND_LINE_LENGTH) :: COMMAND_LINE)


          ! get command line as a string
          call get_command(command=COMMAND_LINE)


          ! JIC:: trim leading spaces just in case
          COMMAND_LINE=adjustl(COMMAND_LINE)


          write(*, (a) )COMMAND_LINE



        end program

    Sample execution:

             arguments on the command line to echo # using the bash shell

             *>< ~[]!{}?" | on the command line to echo

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 2003]] and later

CLASS

    Subroutine

SEE ALSO

    [[get_command_argument]], [[command_argument_count]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                          get_command (3)                                             July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 1d7abaf5-070e-4574-bde8-88bdc7ea9c53 using man macros.
                                                           [get_comman]
