[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      Manual Reference Pages  - get_environment_variable (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    get_environment_variable(3f) - [INTRINSIC:SYSTEM ENVIRONMENT] Get an environmental variable

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class

SYNTAX

    call get_environment_variable(NAME[, VALUE, LENGTH, STATUS, TRIM_NAME)

DESCRIPTION

    Get the VALUE of the environmental variable NAME.

    Note that get_environment_variable need not be thread-safe. It is the responsibility of the user to ensure that the environment
    is not being updated concurrently.

ARGUMENTS

          NAME - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type CHARACTER and of default kind.

          VALUE - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type CHARACTER and of default kind.

          LENGTH - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type INTEGER and of default kind.

          STATUS - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type INTEGER and of default kind.

          TRIM_NAME - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type LOGICAL and of default kind.

RETURN VALUE

    Stores the value of NAME in VALUE. If VALUE is not large enough to hold the data, it is truncated. If NAME is not set, VALUE
    will be filled with blanks.

    Argument LENGTH contains the length needed for storing the environment variable NAME or zero if it is not present.

    STATUS is -1 if VALUE is present but too short for the environment variable; it is 1 if the environment variable does not exist
    and 2 if the processor does not support environment variables; in all other cases STATUS is zero.

    If TRIM_NAME is present with the value .FALSE., the trailing blanks in NAME are significant; otherwise they are not part of the
    environment variable name.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program test_getenv
         character(len=255) :: homedir
         call get_environment_variable("HOME", homedir)
         write (*,*) trim(homedir)
       end program



STANDARD

    [[Fortran 2003]] and later

CLASS

    Subroutine

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                   get_environment_variable (3)                                       July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from f15a0abe-8544-4aa5-87a9-2521f0cfbf18 using man macros.
                                                           [get_enviro]
