[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - inum0 (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    inum0(3f) - [M_calculator_plus]return integer value from calculator expression

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Synopsis
    Description
    Dependencies
    Examples
    See Also
    References

SYNOPSIS

    integer function inum0(inline,ierr)


       character(len=*),intent(in)  :: inline
       integer,optional,intent(out) :: ierr



SYNOPSIS

    INUM0() evaluates a CHARACTER argument as a FORTRAN-like
    calculator expression and returns an integer.


        o  INUM0() uses the calculator routine jucalc(3f)

        o  Remember that the calculator treats all values as DOUBLEPRECISION.

    Values returned are assumed to be very close to being whole integer

             values. A small value (0.01) is added to the result before it is returned to reduce roundoff error problems. This
             could introduce errors if INUM0 is misused and is not being used to calculate essentially integer results.

DESCRIPTION

             inline INLINE is a CHARACTER variable up to 255 characters long that is similar to a FORTRAN 77 numeric expression.
             Keep it less than 80 characters when possible.

             ierr zero (0) if no error occurs

DEPENDENCIES

    o jucalcx

    o User-supplied routines:

            All programs that call the calculator routine must supply
            their own JUOWN1 and C procedures. See the
            ../html/Example.html">example program for samples.
              o juown1
              o c

EXAMPLES

    Sample program:

          program demo_inum0
          ! NOTE: user must supply the JUOWN1 and C procedures.
          i=inum0( 20/3.4 )
          j=inum0( CI = 13 * 3.1 )
          k=inum0( CI )
          write(*,*) Answers are  ,I,J,K
          end program demo_inum0



SEE ALSO

    The syntax of an expression is as described in

            the main document of the Calculator Library. See JUCALC(), RNUM0(), DNUM0(), SNUM0(), STRGARR(), STRGAR2(), JUCALCX()

REFERENCES

    NONE.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             inum0 (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from b9659ef5-9178-41ae-9003-527662be0af2 using man macros.
                                                              [inum0]
