[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - kracken (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    kracken(3f) - [ARGUMENTS:M_kracken]crack command line options on Fortran programs, using "-KEYWORD VALUE" syntax

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Options
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine kracken(verb, string[,ierror])


           character(len=*), intent(in) ::  verb
           character(len=*), intent(in) :: string
           integer, intent(out), optional :: ierror



DESCRIPTION

    This is the main public procedure in the M_kracken(3f) module. It is used to define the command line options, their default
    values, and to crack the command line options using a syntax that looks very much like an execution of the program.

OPTIONS

             VERB arbitrary command name, usually  cmd or the name of the program calling the routine. This defines the variable
             prefix name used by the other functions to retrieve command option values.

             STRING prototype command to define keywords and defaults. This string is simply a list of all keywords and their
             default values exactly as you would type them on the command line, with default values explicitly set.

             IERROR If an error occurs such as an unknown keyword the calling program will be stopped unless the optional parameter
             IERROR is present. If present, it is up to the calling program to decide what to do if a non-zero value is returned.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

          program krackenbasic


          use M_kracken
          ! define command arguments, default values and crack command line
          call kracken( cmd ,              &
             &    -int 20                  &
             &   -real 10e3                &
             &   -file input               &
             &   -dble 4.11223344556677d0  &
             &   -help    .false.          &
             &   -version .false.          &
             &   )
          ! that s it. You defined your command arguments and their default
          ! values and parsed the user-supplied command line arguments.


          ! Now you can just retrieve the values as strings using
          ! names of the form VERB_SWITCHNAME anywhere in your program.
          ! Note that the special name "VERB_oo"  is for the string
          ! before any switch.
             if(lget( cmd_help ))then ! was -help specified?
                write(*,*) The help text 
                stop
             endif
             if(lget( cmd_version ))then ! was -version specified?
                write(*,*) version 1.0 20161030 
                stop
             endif
             ! convert all the remaining options to scalar values
             ! and call a procedure with the values
             call mymain(                  &
             & sget( cmd_file ),           &
             & rget( cmd_real ),           &
             & dget( cmd_dble ),           &
             & iget( cmd_int )             &
             & )
          end program krackenbasic


          subroutine mymain(filename,value1,value2,ivalue3)
          ! this routine is using conventional values and does
          ! not use M_kracken(3fm) module at all
          implicit none
          character(len=*),intent(in) :: filename
          real,intent(in)             :: value1
          doubleprecision,intent(in)  :: value2
          integer,intent(in)          :: ivalue3
             ! just to show the command arguments have
             ! been processed echo the values
             print *,  filename= ,trim(filename)
             print *,  values= ,value1,value2,ivalue3
          end subroutine mymain



    expected output from : "./cmd"

             filename=input
             values= 10000.0000  4.1122334455667700  20



    expected output from : "./cmd -file myfile -int 1234"

             filename=myfile
             values= 10000.0000  4.1122334455667700  1234



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            kracken (3)                                               July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from f6d2c413-cd21-4051-a051-d8908428f4a0 using man macros.
                                                             [kracken]
