[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - lgets (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    lget - [ARGUMENTS:M_kracken]given keyword fetch logical array from command argument

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Options
    Returns
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    function lgets(keyword) result(lvals)


        character(len=*),intent(in)  :: keyword
        logical,allocatable          :: lvals(:)

DESCRIPTION

    The lgets(3f) function returns a dynamically allocated array of logical values from a string that is the value for a command
    line option. It is part of the M_kracken(3fp) module.

    Values that cannot be read as a logical value are returned as a ".FALSE.".

OPTIONS

             keyword the dictionary keyword (in form VERB_KEYWORD) to retrieve. The VERB name comes from the first argument of the
             KRACKEN(3f) call. The KEYWORD is a keyword from the second argument to the KRACKEN(3f) call.

RETURNS

             lvals logical array returned by function. The input value should be from the case-insensitive list of the words "true,
             false, t, f, yes, no, y, n, .false., .true., .f., .t".

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program demo_lgets
       use M_kracken, only: kracken, lgets
       implicit none
       logical,allocatable  :: vals(:)
         ! define command arguments and parse user command
         call kracken( demo , -truths .F. .T. .F. .F. .T. .T.  )
         ! get any values specified on command line for -truth
         vals=lgets( demo_truths )
         write(*,*)vals
       end program demo_lgets



    Example program runs:

       $ demo_lgets

    F T F F T T

    $ demo_lgets -truths false F .f. no true .true. t T Yes No

    F F F F T T T T T T F

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             lgets (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 4b6a2ef2-eac0-4451-b197-727bfb779817 using man macros.
                                                              [lgets]
