[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              Manual Reference Pages  - M_getopt (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    M_getopt(3fm) - [ARGUMENTS:M_getopt]parse command line arguments. similar to those in standard C library.

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Options
    Returns
    Example
    Copyright

SYNOPSIS

    use getopt_m, only : getopt
    use getopt_m, only : option_s
    use getopt_m, only : optarg,optopt,optind

DESCRIPTION

    ch = getopt( optstring, [longopts] )

    Returns next option character from command line arguments.

        o  If an option is not recognized, it returns  ? .

        o  If no options are left, it returns a null character, char(0).

OPTIONS

         optstring contains characters that are recognized as options. If a character is followed by a colon, then it takes a
         required argument. For example, "x" recognizes "-x", while "x:" recognizes "-x arg" or "-xarg".

         opterr Errors are printed by default. Set opterr=.false. to suppress them.

RETURNS

       optopt is set to the option character, even if it isn t recognized.

       optarg is set to the option s argument.

       optind has the index of the next argument to process. Initially optind=1.

    Grouped options are allowed, so "-abc" is the same as "-a -b -c".

    If longopts is present, it is an array of type(option_s), where each entry describes one long option.

         type option_s
             character(len=4096) :: name
             logical             :: has_arg
             character           :: val
         end type



    The name field is the option name, without the leading -- double dash. Set the has_arg field to true if it requires an
    argument, false if not. The val field is returned. Typically this is set to the corresponding short option, so short and long
    options can be processed together. (But there is no requirement that every long option has a short option, or vice-versa.)

    Differences from C version:

    o    when options are finished, C version returns -1 instead of char(0), and thus stupidly requires an int instead of a char.

    o    does not support optreset

    o    does not support "--" as last argument

    o    if no argument, optarg is blank, not NULL

    o    argc and argv are implicit

    Differences for long options:

    o   optional argument to getopt(), rather than separate function getopt_long()

    o   has_arg is logical, and does not support optional_argument

    o   does not support flag field (and thus always returns val)

    o   does not support longindex

    o   does not support "--opt=value" syntax, only "--opt value"

    o   knows the length of longopts, so does not need an empty last record

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program demo_getopts
       use getopt_m, only : getopt,option_s,optarg,optopt
       implicit none


       character(len=*),parameter :: OPTIONS= ab:c 
       type(option_s):: opts(2)
          opts(1) = option_s( "alpha", .false.,  a  )
          opts(2) = option_s( "beta",  .true.,   b  )
          do
             PARSE: select case( getopt( OPTIONS, opts ))
             case( char(0))
                exit PARSE
             case(  a  )
                print *,  option alpha/a , optarg
             case(  b  )
                print *,  option beta/b= , optarg
             case(  ?  )
                print *,  unknown option  , optopt,  not in  ,OPTIONS
                stop
             case default
                print *,  unhandled option c  , optopt,   (an intentional bug) 
             end select PARSE
          end do
       end program demo_getopts



COPYRIGHT

    Copyright 2008 by Mark Gates

    This program is free software; you can redistribute or modify it under the terms of the GNU general public license (GPL),
    version 2 or later.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

    If you wish to incorporate this into non-GPL software, please contact me regarding licensing terms.

    Slightly modified from original -JSU

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                           M_getopt (3)                                               July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 7256bfe7-9e27-41b1-8513-522c0d176831 using man macros.
                                                            [M_getopt]
