[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - M_sort (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    M_sort(3fm) - [M_sort]Fortran module containing sorting algorithms for arrays of standard scalar types

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Quicksort

SYNOPSIS

    use M_sort, only :: sort_shell, sort_quick_rx

DESCRIPTION

    Under development. Currently only provides a few common routines, but it is intended that other procedures will provide a
    variety of sort methods, including ...

             Exchange sorts Bubble sort, Cocktail shaker sort, Odd?even sort, Comb sort, Gnome sort, Quicksort, Stooge sort,
             Bogosort

             Selection sorts Selection sort, Heapsort, Smoothsort, Cartesian tree sort, Tournament sort, Cycle sort

             Insertion sorts Insertion sort, Shellsort, Splaysort, Tree sort, Library sort, Patience sorting

             Merge sorts Merge sort, Cascade merge sort, Oscillating merge sort, Polyphase merge sort

             Distribution sorts American flag sort, Bead sort, Bucket sort, Burstsort, Counting sort, Pigeonhole sort, Proxmap
             sort, Radix sort, Flashsort

             Concurrent sorts Bitonic sorter, Batcher odd?even mergesort, Pairwise sorting network

             Hybrid sorts Block merge sortTimsort, Introsort, Spreadsort

             Other Topological sorting,Pancake sorting, Spaghetti sort

    and an overview of topics concerning sorting

             Theory Computational complexity theory, Big O notation, Total orderLists, InplacementStabilityComparison sort,
             Adaptive sort, Sorting network, Integer sorting, X + Y sorting, Transdichotomous model, Quantum sort

             In the mean time those keywords can be useful in locating materials on the WWW, especially in Wikipedia.

QUICKSORT

    Quicksort, also known as partition-exchange sort, uses these steps

     o Choose any element of the array to be the pivot.  o Divide all other elements (except the pivot) into two partitions.  o All
    elements less than the pivot must be in the first partition.  o All elements greater than the pivot must be in the second
    partition.  o Use recursion to sort both partitions.  o Join the first sorted partition, the pivot, and the second sorted
    partition.

    The best pivot creates partitions of equal length (or lengths differing by 1).

    The worst pivot creates an empty partition (for example, if the pivot is the first or last element of a sorted array).

    The run-time of Quicksort ranges from   O(n log n)   with the best pivots, to   O(n2)   with the worst pivots, where   n   is
    the number of elements in the array.

    Quicksort has a reputation as the fastest sort. Optimized variants of quicksort are common features of many languages and
    libraries.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            M_sort (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 7e6d152b-f65e-4f02-a8e5-21ca928c72be using man macros.
                                                             [M_sort]
