[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - maxloc (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    maxloc(3f) - [INTRINSIC] Location of the maximum value within an array

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    result = maxloc(array, dim [, mask]) result = maxloc(array [, mask])

DESCRIPTION

    Determines the location of the element in the array with the maximum value, or, if the DIM argument is supplied, determines the
    locations of the maximum element along each row of the array in the DIM direction. If MASK is present, only the elements for
    which MASK is .true. are considered. If more than one element in the array has the maximum value, the location returned is that
    of the first such element in array element order. If the array has zero size, or all of the elements of MASK are .false., then
    the result is an array of zeroes. Similarly, if DIM is supplied and all of the elements of MASK along a given row are zero, the
    result value for that row is zero.

ARGUMENTS

             ARRAY - Shall be an array of type INTEGER, REAL, or CHARACTER.

             DIM - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type INTEGER, with a value between one and the rank of ARRAY, inclusive. It may
             not be an optional dummy argument.

             MASK - Shall be an array of type LOGICAL, and conformable with ARRAY.

RETURN VALUE

    If DIM is absent, the result is a rank-one array with a length equal to the rank of ARRAY. If DIM is present, the result is an
    array with a rank one less than the rank of ARRAY, and a size corresponding to the size of ARRAY with the DIM dimension
    removed. If DIM is present and ARRAY has a rank of one, the result is a scalar. In all cases, the result is of default INTEGER
    type.

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Transformational function

SEE ALSO

    [[max]], [[maxval]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            maxloc (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from bca01e22-2e67-46a2-aabd-2bd68f36cba8 using man macros.
                                                             [maxloc]
