[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - maxval (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    maxval(3f) - [INTRINSIC] determines the maximum value in an array or row

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Standard
    Class
    See Also
    Category

SYNTAX

    result = maxval(array, dim [, mask]) result = maxval(array [, mask])

DESCRIPTION

    Determines the maximum value of the elements in an array value, or, if the DIM argument is supplied, determines the maximum
    value along each row of the array in the DIM direction. If MASK is present, only the elements for which MASK is .true. are
    considered. If the array has zero size, or all of the elements of MASK are .false., then the result is the most negative number
    of the type and kind of ARRAY if ARRAY is numeric, or a string of nulls if ARRAY is of character type.

ARGUMENTS

    ARRAY - Shall be an array of type INTEGER, REAL, or CHARACTER. DIM - (Optional) Shall be a scalar of type INTEGER, with a value
    between one and the rank of ARRAY, inclusive. It may not be an optional dummy argument.

          MASK - Shall be an array of type LOGICAL, and conformable with ARRAY.

RETURN VALUE

    If DIM is absent, or if ARRAY has a rank of one, the result is a scalar. If DIM is present, the result is an array with a rank
    one less than the rank of ARRAY, and a size corresponding to the size of ARRAY with the DIM dimension removed. In all cases,
    the result is of the same type and kind as ARRAY.

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Transformational function

SEE ALSO

    [[max]], [[maxloc]]

CATEGORY

    intrinsics

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            maxval (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 1e17f235-826a-4038-b6af-4feb97bc4c42 using man macros.
                                                             [maxval]
