[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - modif (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    modif - [M_strings]emulate the MODIFY command from the line editor XEDIT

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Examples

SYNOPSIS



    subroutine modif(cline,cmod)


        character(len=*) :: cline ! input string to change
        character(len=*) :: cmod  ! directive provides directions on changing string





DESCRIPTION

    MODIF(3f) Modifies the line currently pointed at using a directive that acts much like a line editor directive. Primarily used
    to create interactive utilities such as input history editors for interactive line-mode programs.

    the modify directives are as follows-

    DIRECTIVE EXPLANATION

             ^STRING# Causes the string of characters between the ^ and the next # to be inserted before the characters pointed to
             by the ^. an ^ or & within the string is treated as a regular character. If the closing # is not specified, MODIF(3f)
             inserts the remainder of the line as if a # was specified after the last nonblank character.

             There are two exceptions. the combination ^# causes a # to be inserted before the character pointed to by the ^, and
             an ^ as the last character of the directives causes a blank to be inserted.

             # (When not the first # after an ^) causes the character above it to be deleted.

             & Replaces the character above it with a space.

             (SPACE) A space below a character leaves it unchanged.

    Any other character replaces the character above it.

EXAMPLES

    Example input/output:

       THE INPUT LINE........ 10 THIS STRING  TO BE MORTIFD
       THE DIRECTIVES LINE...        ^ IS THE#        D#  ^IE
       ALTERED INPUT LINE.... 10 THIS IS THE STRING  TO BE MODIFIED

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             modif (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 3a769685-d33e-4370-9a14-451988bb8789 using man macros.
                                                              [modif]
