[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - other2 (3u)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    subroutine other2(iin,iflag)

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Dependencies
    See Also
    References
    Author

SYNOPSIS

    integer, intent=(inout) :: iin
    This is the unit code the program should be reading from.


    integer, intent=(out) :: iflag
    if IFLAG=0 then ending reading of this file. Decrement unit count.
    if IFLAG=1 then open a new file and update unit code.

DESCRIPTION

    OTHER2() is a copy of OTHER() that can have filenames that are Calculator string expressions and that enables a program with a
    "parcel" command that reads from a direct access file to be mixed with the nested reads normally allowed with a call to OTHER
    ().

    Currently only one program uses this routine but it s function is similar to OTHER() and it may be useful as an example for
    anyone else trying to implement a parcel command.

             o OTHER2() can use string expressions for filenames because it calls RETRV2() instead of RETREV() to get the filenames
             from the dictionary.

             o if IIN is negative, this is a flag that the read was encountered while reading from a "parcel" instead of a standard
             file.

             o switches IIN to + so read occurs, but keep sign to reapply at end

DEPENDENCIES

    o retrv2

    o jun

SEE ALSO

    see OTHER().

REFERENCES

    o NONE

AUTHOR

    John S. Urban Created: 19971123 Updated: 20161215

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            other2 (3u)                                               July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from c56114be-5f2a-4a6c-92fc-955c207afda9 using man macros.
                                                             [other2]
