[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - pack (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    pack(3f) - [INTRINSIC:ARRAY CONSTRUCTION] Pack an array into an array of rank one

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    result = pack(array, mask[,vector])

DESCRIPTION

    Stores the elements of ARRAY in an array of rank one.

    The beginning of the resulting array is made up of elements whose MASK equals TRUE. Afterwards, positions are filled with
    elements taken from VECTOR.

ARGUMENTS

             ARRAY - Shall be an array of any type.

             MASK - Shall be an array of type LOGICAL and of the same size as ARRAY. Alternatively, it may be a LOGICAL scalar.

             VECTOR - (Optional) shall be an array of the same type as ARRAY and of rank one. If present, the number of elements in
             VECTOR shall be equal to or greater than the number of true elements in MASK. If MASK is scalar, the number of
             elements in VECTOR shall be equal to or greater than the number of elements in ARRAY.

RETURN VALUE

    The result is an array of rank one and the same type as that of ARRAY. If VECTOR is present, the result size is that of VECTOR,
    the number of TRUE values in MASK otherwise.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program gathering nonzero elements from an array:

        program test_pack_1
          integer :: m(6)
          m = (/ 1, 0, 0, 0, 5, 0 /)
          write(*, fmt="(6(i0,    ))") pack(m, m /= 0)  ! "1 5"
        end program



Gathering nonzero elements from an array and appending elements from VECTOR:

    program test_pack_2
      integer :: m(4)
      m = (/ 1, 0, 0, 2 /)
      write(*, fmt="(4(i0,    ))") pack(m, m /= 0, (/ 0, 0, 3, 4 /))  ! "1 2 3 4"
    end program



STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Transformational function

SEE ALSO

    [[unpack]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             pack (3)                                                 July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from e380c0dd-1431-4f5a-8033-8aee2c77143f using man macros.
                                                              [pack]
