[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - paws (1)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    paws - [TIME] pause until specified time or for specified duration

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Options
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    paws dd-hh:mm:ss[.xxx][-msg message][-repeat TIMES[-fmt ]]|...
    [-uet|-jed|-dat|[-date|-until]]
    paws --version|--help

DESCRIPTION

    Given a duration in the form dd-hh:mm:ss.xxx where dd is days, hh hours, mm minutes and ss.xxx seconds convert it to seconds.
    Then, pause for that many seconds. Alternatively, pause until specified date has passed. If no duration is specified wait until
    a carriage return is entered.

OPTIONS

             dd-hh:mm:ss Given a string representing a duration of time in the following forms:

                      dd-hh:mm:ss[.xx]
                         hh:mm:ss[.xx]
                            mm:ss[.xx]
                               ss[.xx]



             convert it to seconds and pause for that amount of time. -date|-until wait until the specified date has passed (before
             starting optional pause). See guessdate(3f) for syntax allowed for the date.

             -uet wait until the specified Unix Epoch Time has passed

             -jed wait until the specified Julian Ephemeris Date has passed

             -dat wait until the specified date vector has passed (year month day timezone hour minutes seconds milliseconds)

             -repeat NNN The duration is repeated NNN times with the date displaced at the end of each pause.

             --msg message to display before pausing

             --help display this help and exit

             --version output version information and exit

    For more information on the format of the dates, see the now(1) command.

EXAMPLE

    Typical usage:

       paws 2:00:00              # pause for two hours
       paws 3600                 # pause one hour
       paws 0.10                 # pause one tenth of a second
       paws 1 -repeat 60         # pause sixty seconds, display the date each second
       paws -until 23:59:59      # pause until midnight
       paws 15:00 -date 23:59:59 # pause till midnight then an additional 15 minutes

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             paws (1)                                                 July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 6227cba6-3132-4bd5-a9a7-ca2992d69276 using man macros.
                                                              [paws]
