[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - product (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    product(3f) - [INTRINSIC] Product of array elements

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Example
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    o result = product(array[, mask])

    o result = product(array, dim[, mask])

    DESCRIPTION

    Multiplies the elements of ARRAY along dimension DIM if the corresponding element in MASK is TRUE.

ARGUMENTS

         ARRAY - Shall be an array of type INTEGER, REAL or COMPLEX.

         DIM - (Optional) shall be a scalar of type INTEGER with a value in the range from 1 to n, where n equals the rank of
         ARRAY.

         MASK - (Optional) shall be of type LOGICAL and either be a scalar or an array of the same shape as ARRAY.

RETURN VALUE

    The result is of the same type as ARRAY.

    If DIM is absent, a scalar with the product of all elements in ARRAY is returned. Otherwise, an array of rank n-1, where n
    equals the rank of ARRAY, and a shape similar to that of ARRAY with dimension DIM dropped is returned.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

        program test_product
          integer :: x(5) = (/ 1, 2, 3, 4 ,5 /)
          print *, product(x)                    ! all elements, product = 120
          print *, product(x, mask=mod(x, 2)==1) ! odd elements, product = 15
        end program



STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later

CLASS

    Transformational function

SEE ALSO

    [[sum]], note that an element by element multiplication is done directly using the star character.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            product (3)                                               July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from bdb81e4e-9114-4502-8b20-d4996b264e1b using man macros.
                                                             [product]
