[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Manual Reference Pages  - sort_quick_rx (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    sort_quick_rx(3f) - [M_sort]indexed hybrid quicksort of a real array

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine sort_quick_rx(data,index)


          real,intent(in)         :: data(:)
          integer,intent(out)     :: indx(size(data))



DESCRIPTION

    From Leonard J. Moss of SLAC:

    Here s a hybrid QuickSort I wrote a number of years ago. It s based on suggestions in Knuth, Volume 3, and performs much better
    than a pure QuickSort on short or partially ordered input arrays.

    This routine performs an in-memory sort of the first N elements of array DATA, returning into array INDEX the indices of
    elements of DATA arranged in ascending order. Thus,

          DATA(INDX(1)) will be the smallest number in array DATA;
          DATA(INDX(N)) will be the largest number in DATA.



    The original data is not physically rearranged. The original order of equal input values is not necessarily preserved.

    sort_quick_rx(3f) uses a hybrid QuickSort algorithm, based on several suggestions in Knuth, Volume 3, Section 5.2.2. In
    particular, the "pivot key" [my term] for dividing each subsequence is chosen to be the median of the first, last, and middle
    values of the subsequence; and the QuickSort is cut off when a subsequence has 9 or fewer elements, and a straight insertion
    sort of the entire array is done at the end. The result is comparable to a pure insertion sort for very short arrays, and very
    fast for very large arrays (of order 12 micro-sec/element on the 3081K for arrays of 10K elements). It is also not subject to
    the poor performance of the pure QuickSort on partially ordered data.

    o  Created: sortrx(3f): 15 Jul 1986, Len Moss

    o  saved from url=(0044)http://www.fortran.com/fortran/quick_sort2.f

    o  changed to update syntax from F77 style; John S. Urban 20161021

EXAMPLE

    Sample usage:

       program test_sort_quick_rx
       use M_sort, only : sort_quick_rx
       implicit none
       integer,parameter            :: isz=10000000
       real                         :: rr(isz)
       integer                      :: ii(isz)
       integer                      :: i
       write(*,*) initializing array with  ,isz,  random numbers 
       CALL RANDOM_NUMBER(RR)
       rr=rr*450000.0
       write(*,*) sort real array with sort_quick_rx(3f) 
       call sort_quick_rx(rr,ii)
       write(*,*) checking index of sort_quick_rx(3f) 
       do i=1,isz-1
          if(rr(ii(i)).gt.rr(ii(i+1)))then
             write(*,*) Error in sorting reals small to large  ,i,rr(ii(i),rr(ii(i+1))
          endif
       enddo
       write(*,*) test of sort_quick_rx(3f) complete 
       end program test_sort_quick_rx



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                         sort_quick_rx (3)                                            July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 9097fe81-2a7e-4cb1-ae4a-064267c8e355 using man macros.
                                                           [sort_quick]
