[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - splint (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    splint(3f) - [M_math:fit]interpolates and twice differentiates a cubic spline

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Options
    Returns
    Example
    Pedigree

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine splint (x,y,ypp,n,xi,yi,ypi,yppi,ni,kerr)


       integer,intent(in) :: n, ni
       real,intent(in)    :: x(n),y(n),ypp(n),xi(ni)
       real,intent(out)   :: yi(ni),ypi(ni),yppi(ni)



DESCRIPTION

    SPLINT(3f) interpolates and twice differentiates a cubic spline defined by X, Y, and YPP at the abscissas in XI. The spline may
    have been determined by SPLIFT(3f) or SMOOTH(3f) or any other spline fitting routine which provides second derivatives.

OPTIONS

           X array of data abscissas

           Y array of data ordinates

           YPP array of spline second derivatives

           N number of data points (the dimension of X,Y, and YPP)

           XI array of abscissas (in arbitrary order) at which the spline is to be interpolated.

           NI dimension of XI, YI, YPI, and YPPI. (if NI=1, XI, YI, YPI and YPPI may be simple variables.)

RETURNS

         YI array of interpolated ordinates (OUTPUT)

         YPI array of interpolated derivatives (OUTPUT)

         YPPI array of interpolated second derivatives (OUTPUT)

         KERR error status parameter (OUTPUT)

    NORMAL CODES

            =0 means the spline was evaluated at each abscissa in XI using only interpolation.

            =1 means the spline was evaluated at each abscissa in XI, but at least one extrapolation was performed.

    ABNORMAL CODE

          =2 means the requested number of interpolations, NI, was not positive.

EXAMPLE

PEDIGREE

    Original written by:

         Rondall E. Jones
         Sandia Mathematical Program Library
         Applied Mathematics Division 2642
         Sandia Laboratories
         P. O. Box 5800
         Albuquerque, New Mexico  87115



    Control Data 6600 Version 5.1, 10 December 1973

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            splint (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 9e7671ee-4fa8-4299-abea-a1a2b4cb452f using man macros.
                                                             [splint]
