[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Manual Reference Pages  - stuff (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    stuff(3f) - [M_calculator]directly store value into calculator directory for efficiency

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Definition
    Options
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine stuff(varnam0,value,ioflag)


       character(len=*),intent(in)             :: varnam0
       integer|real|doubleprecision,intent(in) :: value
       character(len=*),intent(in),optional    :: ioflag



DEFINITION

    Normally values are stored or defined in the calculator module M_calculator(3fm) using the jucalc(3f) routine or the
    convenience

             routines in the module M_calculator_plus(3fm). For efficiency when large numbers of values require being stored the
             stuff(3f) procedure can be used to store numeric values by name in the calculator dictionary.

    breaking the rule of only accessing the calculator thru jucalc:

    stuff(3f) is assumed to only be used when needed for efficiency and to avoid problems with recursion if a routine called by the
    calculator in JUOWN1(3f) wants to store something back into the calculator variable table.

OPTIONS

             varnam0 name of calculator variable to define or replace

             value numeric value to associate with the name varnam0. May be integer, real, or doubleprecison.

             ioflag optional flag to use journal logging. This string is passed directly to M_journal::journal(3f) as the first
             parameter. The default is to not log the definitions to the journal(3f) command.

EXAMPLE

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                             stuff (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 5504f052-d451-4256-9857-75678f15a584 using man macros.
                                                              [stuff]
