[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Manual Reference Pages  - system_chmod (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    system_chmod(3f) - [M_system]call chmod(3c) to change permission mode of a file relative to directory file descriptor

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Return Value
    Examples

SYNOPSIS

    function system_chmod(filename,mode) result(ierr)


          character(len=*),intent(in)  :: filename
          integer,value,intent(in)     :: mode
          integer                      :: ierr



DESCRIPTION

             The chmod() function shall change UID, _ISGID, S_ISVTX, and the file permission bits of the file named by the path-
             name pointed to by the path argument to the corresponding bits in the mode

             argument. The application shall ensure that the effective user ID of the process matches the owner of the file or the
             process has appropriate privileges in order to do this.

    S_ISUID, S_ISGID, S_ISVTX, and the file permission bits are described in <sys/stat.h>.

    If the calling process does not have appropriate privileges, and if the group ID of the file does not match the effective group
    ID or one of the supplementary group IDs and if the file is a regular file, bit S_ISGID (set-group-ID on execution) in the file
     s mode shall be cleared upon successful return from chmod().

    Additional implementation-defined restrictions may cause the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits in mode to be ignored.

    Upon successful completion, system_chmod() marks for update the last file status change timestamp of the file.

    Values for flag are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list, defined in <fcntl.h>:

    AT_SYMLINK_NOFOLLOW If path names a symbolic link, then the mode of the symbolic link is changed.

RETURN VALUE

             Upon successful completion, system_chmod(3f) returns 0. Otherwise, it returns -1 and sets errno to indicate the error.
             If -1 is returned, no change to the file mode occurs.

EXAMPLES

    Sample program:

       program demo_system_chmod
       use M_system, only : system_chmod
       use M_system, only : R_GRP,R_OTH,R_USR,R_WXG,R_WXO
       use M_system, only : R_WXU,W_GRP,W_OTH,W_USR,X_GRP,X_OTH,X_USR
       use M_system, only : DEFFILEMODE, ACCESSPERMS
       implicit none
       integer :: ierr
       integer :: status
       !Setting Read Permissions for User, Group, and Others
       ! The following example sets read permissions for the owner, group, and others.
       open(file= _test1 ,unit=10)
       write(10,*) TEST FILE 1 
       close(unit=10)
       ierr=system_chmod( _test1 , IANY(R_USR,R_GRP,R_OTH))


       !Setting Read, Write, and Execute Permissions for the Owner Only
       ! The following example sets read, write, and execute permissions for the owner, and no permissions for group and others.
       open(file= _test2 ,unit=10)
       write(10,*) TEST FILE 2 
       close(unit=10)
       ierr=system_chmod( _test2 , R_WXU)


       !Setting Different Permissions for Owner, Group, and Other
       ! The  following  example  sets owner permissions for CHANGEFILE to read, write, and execute, group permissions to read and
       ! execute, and other permissions to read.
       open(file= _test3 ,unit=10)
       write(10,*) TEST FILE 3 
       close(unit=10)
       ierr=system_chmod( _test3 , IANY([R_WXU,R_GRP,X_GRP,R_OTH]));


       !Setting and Checking File Permissions
       ! The following example sets the file permission bits for a file named /home/cnd/mod1, then calls the  stat()  function  to
       ! verify the permissions.


       ierr=system_chmod("home/cnd/mod1", IANY([R_WXU,R_WXG,R_OTH,W_OTH]));
       status = stat("home/cnd/mod1", buffer;);


       ! In  order  to  ensure  that the S_ISUID and S_ISGID bits are set, an application requiring this should use stat() after a
       ! successful chmod() to verify this.


       !    Any files currently open could possibly become invalid if the mode
       !    of the  file  is changed  to  a value which would deny access to
       !    that process.


       end program demo_system_chmod





-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                         system_chmod (3)                                             July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 30073e84-d4fa-4ddb-b579-24bd3608fb8c using man macros.
                                                           [system_chm]
