[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Manual Reference Pages  - system_readdir (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    system_readdir(3f) - [M_system]read a directory using readdir(3c)

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine system_readdir(dir,filename,ierr)


     type(c_ptr),value                         :: dir
     character(len=:),intent(out),allocatable  :: filename
     integer,intent(out)                       :: ierr



DESCRIPTION

    system_readdir(3f) returns the name of the directory entry at the current position in the directory stream specified by the
    argument DIR, and positions the directory stream at the next entry. It returns a null name upon reaching the end of the
    directory stream.

    The readdir() function does not return directory entries containing empty names. If entries for dot or dot-dot exist, one entry
    is returned for dot and one entry is returned for dot-dot.

    The entry is marked for update of the last data access timestamp each time it is read.

    If IERR is set to non-zero on return, an error occurred.

    least {NAME_MAX}+1 elements.

    reaching the end of the directory stream, the name is a blank name.

EXAMPLE

    Sample program:

       program demo_system_readdir
       use M_system, only : system_opendir,system_readdir
       use M_system, only : system_rewinddir,system_closedir
       use iso_c_binding
       implicit none


       type(c_ptr)                  :: dir
       character(len=:),allocatable :: filename
       integer                      :: i, ierr
       !--- open directory stream to read from
       call system_opendir( . ,dir,ierr)
       !--- read directory stream twice
       do i=1,2
          write(*, (a,i0) ) PASS  ,i
          do
             call system_readdir(dir,filename,ierr)
             if(filename.eq.   )exit
             write(*,*)filename
          enddo
          call system_rewinddir(dir)
       enddo
       !--- close directory stream
       call system_closedir(dir,ierr)


       end program demo_system_readdir



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                        system_readdir (3)                                            July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from f798d0e0-c85d-4422-afdb-2c70c43a592e using man macros.
                                                           [system_rea]
