[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Manual Reference Pages  - system_readline (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    system_readline(3f) - [M_readline]Call readline(3c) from Fortran

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Example

SYNOPSIS

           character(kind=c_char,len=*),intent(in) :: prompt character(kind=c_char,len=*),intent(out) :: line

DESCRIPTION

    The system_readline(3f) uses the ISO_C_BINDING module to create a binding to the GNU readline(3c) procedure from Fortran
    programs.

EXAMPLE

    The test program is basically just a read loop that prompts for lines of input read with readline(3c). You can edit the line
    being read with readline(3c) per it s documentation. At a minimum, you can probably move around the line with the left and
    right arrow keys, and insert characters by typing them whereever you moved the cursor to, and use the DEL/ RUBOUT key to delete
    characters and such. If you use a GNU/Linux shell with command line editing, you are probably familiar with readline(3c) s
    function.

    It quits if you enter  q on an input line, and it dumps the history if you enter  h .

    It is presented here as a Bourne shell script that creates the neccessary files and does a "compile, load, and go"

the test program

   program demo_system_readline
      use m_readline, only : system_readline
      implicit none
      character(len=256):: line


      write(*,*)  ____________________________________________________________ 
      write(*,*)   Your input lines are now edittable using the GNU 
      write(*,*)   readline(3C) procedure.  By default, up-arrow and 
      write(*,*)   down-arrow go thru the history lines; left and right arrow 
      write(*,*)   keys and delete and just typing characters let you do 
      write(*,*)   simple editting. Far more input control is available. 
      write(*,*)   See the browser pages and man(1) pages for readline(3c). 
      write(*,*)  ____________________________________________________________ 
      write(*,*)  Enter text and then edit it. "q" quits; "h" display history: 


      do
         call system_readline(line, readline> ) ! read editable input line
         if(line.eq. q ) stop
         call execute_command_line(line(:len_trim(line)))
      enddo
   end program demo_system_readline



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                        system_readline (3)                                           July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 01adbb09-0239-4e99-a41d-8f5cfc2600a3 using man macros.
                                                           [system_rea]
