[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Manual Reference Pages  - system_unlink (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    system_unlink(3f) - [M_system]remove a directory entry relative to directory file descriptor

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Return Value
    Examples

SYNOPSIS

    integer function unlink(path);


        character(len=*) :: path



DESCRIPTION

    The unlink() function shall remove a link to a file. If path names a symbolic link, unlink() shall remove the symbolic link
    named by path and shall not affect any file or directory named by the contents of the symbolic link. Otherwise, unlink() shall
    remove the link named by the pathname pointed to by path and shall decrement the link count of the file referenced by the link.

    When the file s link count becomes 0 and no process has the file open, the space occupied by the file shall be freed and the
    file shall no longer be accessible. If one or more processes have the file open when the last link is removed, the link shall
    be removed before unlink() returns, but the removal of the file contents shall be postponed until all refer- ences to the file
    are closed.

    The path argument shall not name a directory unless the process has appropriate privileges and the implementation sup- ports
    using unlink() on directories.

    Upon successful completion, unlink() shall mark for update the last data modification and last file status change time- stamps
    of the parent directory. Also, if the file s link count is not 0, the last file status change timestamp of the file shall be
    marked for update.

    Values for flag are constructed by a bitwise-inclusive OR of flags from the following list, defined in <fcntl.h>:

          AT_REMOVEDIR



        Remove the directory entry specified by fd and path as a directory, not a normal file.

RETURN VALUE

    Upon successful completion, these functions shall return 0. Otherwise,

             these functions shall return -1 and set errno to indicate the error. If -1 is returned, the named file shall not be
             changed.

EXAMPLES

    Removing a link to a file

       program demo_system_unlink
       use M_system, only : system_unlink
       ierr = system_unlink( myfile1 )
       if(ierr.ne.0)then
          call system_perror( *demo_system_unlink* )
       endif
       end program demo_system_unlink

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                         system_unlink (3)                                            July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 4dece598-0c2f-4236-bcea-094ea6dc4249 using man macros.
                                                           [system_unl]
