[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Manual Reference Pages  - system_chdir (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    system_chdir(3f) - [M_system]call chdir(3c) from Fortran to change working directory

CONTENTS

    Synopsis
    Description
    Return Value
    See Also
    Example

SYNOPSIS

    subroutine system_chdir(path, err)


        character(len=*)               :: path
        integer, optional, intent(out) :: err



DESCRIPTION

    system_chdir(3f) changes the current working directory of the calling process to the directory specified in path. The current
    working directory is the starting point for interpreting relative pathnames (those not starting with  / ).

RETURN VALUE

    On success, zero is returned. On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

    Depending on the file system, other errors can be returned. The more general errors for chdir() are listed below, by their C
    definitions:

    Errors

           EACCES Search permission is denied for one of the components of path. (See also path_resolution(7).)

           EFAULT path points outside your accessible address space.

           EIO An I/O error occurred.

           ELOOP Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving path.

           ENAMETOOLONG path is too long.

           ENOENT The file does not exist.

           ENOMEM Insufficient kernel memory was available.

           ENOTDIR A component of path is not a directory.

SEE ALSO

    chroot(2), getcwd(3), path_resolution(7)

EXAMPLE

    Change working directory from Fortran

         program demo_system_chdir
         use M_system, only : system_chdir
         implicit none
         integer :: ierr


         call execute_command_line( pwd )
         call system_chdir( /tmp ,ierr)
         call execute_command_line( pwd )
         write(*,*) *CHDIR TEST* IERR= ,ierr


         end program demo_system_chdir



RESULTS: Sample run output:

     /home/urbanjs/V600
     /tmp
     *CHDIR TEST* IERR=           0



-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                         system_chdir (3)                                             July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from f6f0f207-e477-4b78-afe2-1c08d777374f using man macros.
                                                           [system_chd]
