[UP]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               Manual Reference Pages  - ubound (3)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 
NAME

    ubound(3f) - [INTRINSIC:ARRAY INQUIRY] Upper dimension bounds of an array

CONTENTS

    Syntax
    Description
    Arguments
    Return Value
    Standard
    Class
    See Also

SYNTAX

    result = ubound(array [, dim [, kind]])

DESCRIPTION

    Returns the upper bounds of an array, or a single upper bound along the DIM dimension.

ARGUMENTS

             ARRAY - Shall be an array, of any type.

             DIM - (Optional) Shall be a scalar INTEGER. KIND- (Optional) An INTEGER initialization expression indicating the kind
             parameter of the result.

RETURN VALUE

    The return value is of type INTEGER and of kind KIND. If KIND is absent, the return value is of default integer kind. If DIM is
    absent, the result is an array of the upper bounds of ARRAY. If DIM is present, the result is a scalar corresponding to the
    upper bound of the array along that dimension. If ARRAY is an expression rather than a whole array or array structure
    component, or if it has a zero extent along the relevant dimension, the upper bound is taken to be the number of elements along
    the relevant dimension.

STANDARD

    [[Fortran 95]] and later, with KIND argument [[Fortran 2003]] and later

CLASS

    [[Inquiry function]]

SEE ALSO

    [[lbound]], [[lcobound]], [[ucobound]]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                                            ubound (3)                                                July 02, 2017

Generated by manServer 1.08 from 817342b8-88e0-45a2-ac7a-71c39664f525 using man macros.
                                                             [ubound]
